.\" cclc Linux manpage
.\" Copyright (C) 2018 steelstring94@gmail.com

.\" This work is licensed under the 
.\" Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. 
.\" To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/ 
.\" or send a letter to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.

.\" ANY AND ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" SEE SECTION 5 OF 
.\" CREATIVE COMMONS ATTRIBUTION SHAREALIKE 4.0 INTERNATIONAL LICENSE
.\" FOR FULL WARRANTY DISCLAIMER.

.TH cclc 1 "February 6 2018" "version 1.0.0"
.SH NAME
cclc - Calculate chmod permission codes

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cclc
\fIBINARY PERMISSIONS\fR

.br

.B cclc
[\fITARGETS\fR] \fI PERMISSIONS

.SH DESCRIPTION
Calculator for \fBchmod\fR permission codes.  Accepts input either as binary representation of rwx in the order USER GROUP OTHER (so 111 101 100 would be rwx r-x r--), or lettered arguments u, g and/or o with each one followed by r, w and/or x in any order.

.PP
Any permissions left out will be automatically denied.  Also, in the case of binary input, you may truncate non-significant 0s (so 100 001 0 could be 100 1).  In the case of lettered input, you simply need not specify any permissions you want to deny.  So permission code 600 (rw- --- ---) would be \fBcclc -u rw\fR

.SH EXAMPLES
The output of \fBcclc\fR is intended to be interpolated into \fBchmod\fR

.PP
For example, \fBchmod `cclc -ug rw -o r` ./testfile\fR would apply permissions \fBrw- rw- r--\fR to file \fB./testfile\fR
.PP
The same result could be achieved with \fBchmod `cclc 110 110 100` ./testfile\fR

.PP
If not interpolated, \fBcclc\fR will output the permissions code on the command line.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-u\fR
.br
specify permissions for user
.TP
\fB-g\fR
.br
specify permissions for group
.TP
\fB-o\fR
.br
specify permissions for other
.TP
\fBrwx\fR
.br
read, write and execute permissions - used with lettered target arguments
.br
.TP
\fB1|0\fR
.br
represent rwx permissions in \fBuser group other\fR order, using \fB1\fR to give a permission and \fB0\fR to deny it

.SH BUGS
None known

.SH AUTHOR
steelstring94@gmail.com

.SH LICENSE
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

.PP
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.SH SEE ALSO
chmod(1)
